The web console will likely be your first point of
interaction with AWS since you'll need to sign up for the
service and configure your account.
After logging in,
you'll be dumped on to the console main page that has become
cleaner and more organized over the years.
Expanding the All services section gives you an idea of
all the services AWS has to offer.
You may notice some from the previous modules like
Elastic Beanstalk or DynamoDB,
but it's obvious that there are a lot of services that we weren't able to cover.
That's okay.
In my job as a web developer, I really use less than 10 of these services,
and you can see that some are specifically targeted for gaming,
mobile, or IoT.
Don't let this screen overwhelm you.
We're going to break it down now.
The console has organized all the services into
similar groups to build a taxonomy.
In the top left is the compute category.
Including services like EC2 and Elastic Beanstalk,
this category is where you'll find services for running
your application on a virtual machine.
The other services on offer here provides similar functionality.
Below that is the Storage category.
You can see S3 is here,
so I'm sure you can imagine this category is about storing files.
Next is the Database category with RDS, DynamoDB, and DocumentDB on offer.
Then, there's the Networking & Content Delivery category with VPC,
CloudFront, and Route53.
The Developer Tools category has services that relate to code development,
such as a cloud‑based source repository with CodeCommit.
The Management & Governance category contains CloudWatch,
but also other tools for automatically creating resources
with CloudFormation and OpsWorks.
The last category I'll talk about is the Security,
Identity, & Compliance category,
which has services like IAM for AWS user management and the
Certificate Manager for SSL certificates.
The console menu bar at the top has a few tricks up its sleeve to
navigate AWS quickly. The Services drop‑down menu provides you with a
similar list of services as the All services list.
You can select the star to the left of any of the
services to add it to your favorites menu.
And the Recently visited list shows you the most
recent dashboards that you visited.
The universal search box is available whether the
Services drop‑down is expanded or not.
This search box will show your results for your query from the
available AWS services, features from each service,
AWS resource documentation, and results from the AWS Marketplace. I've
found that I usually only use it for quick service navigation as the
documentation results are pretty hit or miss.
Still,
the universal search bar is the number 1 way that I navigate
the management console on a daily basis.
We've already discussed regions many times in this course. It's important that
you consider which region you're launching your resources into because many
resources are not visible to others across regions.
To select your region,
you'll find a drop‑down in the top‑right corner. Select the region
where you want to launch resources first before creating the
resource and the console. And regions also decide pricing, so make
sure to take that into account.
Billing is an important part of AWS for most of us, so let's take a look at
that section. Clicking on your name in the top‑right corner will open a
drop‑down with some account administration options. Clicking on My Billing
Dashboard will take you to the billing dashboard, which will show you a
snapshot of the current month's charges and projected charges. On the right
side of the dashboard, it will show you the services where you're getting
charged.
I really love that Amazon has done this. Clicking on your name again
and then My Security Credentials will take you to the IAM service
dashboard where you can manage user credentials,
keys, groups, and roles for yourself and anyone else on this same account.
You can enable multi‑factor authentication here,
which is highly recommended, create access keys for CLI
or SDK access, and other activities.
If you work on a team with multiple members accessing the same AWS account,
the User section is where you'll give your teammates user accounts.
You can then add them to groups to easily assign roles,
giving them permissions to certain services on the account.
We don't have enough time to go through every service in the web console,
but I thought we might at least look at the EC2 dashboard.
The dashboard first shows you what running resources you have
that are relevant to EC2, such as instances,
Elastic Block Storage volumes, load balancers, and security groups.
If you look a little further down,
you will see a quick snapshot of region and availability zone health statuses.
This region will match the region you have selected
in the top right of the menu bar.
On the left side of the dashboard are many links to
EC2‑related services, such as instances, AMIs,
security groups, load balancers, and auto scaling groups.
All of these services and categories specifically relate to EC2, and it's
nice that they're organized in this way. Clicking this Launch Instance button
is a shortcut that will take you through the launch wizard for an EC2
instance. In our clip where we covered EC2,
I showed you most of the rest of the process for this.
Each service dashboard is going to be different, so it's a
good idea to look around the service page for any AWS services that you're interested in.